---
layout: post
title: "The Pre-COSYNE Brainhack 2025"
description: "Everything you need to know about the Pre-COSYNE Brainhack 2025 in Montreal, Canada."
date: 2024-10-12 13:30 +0100
author: Florian
image:
  path: "/assets/img/montreal_skyline.webp"
  lqip: "data:image/webp;base64,UklGRl4AAABXRUJQVlA4IFIAAACQAwCdASoUAAsAPzmGulQvKSWjMAgB4CcJR3ADjuIAFAEoulPQAP7odBAdzRndKKaf19MZ3ww/k8wWLeFEeoH8CRIG1oyPbyr7thiwwY71WgAA"
  alt: "Skyline of Montreal. Credit: Arild Vågen, CC BY-SA 4.0, via Wikimedia Commons."
pin: true
---

> We are still working out the details on the Pre-COSYNE Brainhack 2025 and will keep updating this post accordingly.
> Please check in again soon for more information!
{: .prompt-info }

Overview
--------

Pre-COSYNE Brainhack is a lively event that brings together people who are passionate about open science, open-source tools, and collaboration around computational and systems neuroscience.
The hackathon provides an opportunity for people from different institutions to work together on projects of shared interest and learn from each other.
Projects can be on anything from integrating a data visualization tool with an analysis tool, to training an LLM to extract knowledge from neuroscience papers, to developing a tool for tracking the usage of a software package in papers.
Everyone is welcome; you do not need to be a software engineer to participate. 
Once registrations are open we'll let you know here.

> If you cannot attend but would like to be notified of future events, please [join for our mailing list](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdH_LikO1-7HiVcM-Utu9r_0GEWcSiuwcFLck7f9zZgKC9OOw/viewform?usp=sf_link).
{: .prompt-tip }

Event Goals
-----------

* Foster a community around open tools for neuroscience research
* Facilitate cross-institutional and interdisciplinary collaborations and spark new ideas
* Support an international, professional network of research software engineers who work in neuroscience, especially those who work with neurophysiology data
* Create a fun, valuable event that participants would return to

Benefits to Participants
------------------------

* Connect with other engineers and scientists who do similar work at other institutions
* Collaborate with others on a fun / useful project of shared interest
* Learn about others' work and ideas
* Share and get feedback about your own work and ideas
* Learn skills and best practices in research software engineering
* Learn about career paths and opportunities in research software engineering (informally)

Dates and Format
----------------

The hackathon runs from **March 25–26, 2025** — the two days preceding the COSYNE conference.
It consists of brief project pitches at the start, brief project presentations at the end, and an unconference session in the middle where participants can give brief talks on topics of shared interest. The rest of the time is dedicated to hacking and meals.
The event runs from 8:30 AM to around 6:30 PM on both days, though participants are welcome to hack together into the night.

Since the hackathon is relatively short in duration, participants are strongly encouraged to arrive in Montreal by 6 PM the day before the hackathon (Mar. 24) to join other participants for dinner and socializing.
Participants are strongly encouraged to stay through the Simons Foundation social at the end of the second day.

This hackathon is heavily inspired by the OHBM Hackathon, BrainHack, and EBRAINS/HBP/NeuralEnsemble CodeJam events.
Pre-COSYNE Brainhack is not an official part of COSYNE.

Location
--------

{% leaflet_map { "center" : [45.508888, -73.561668],
                 "zoom" : 12} %}
    {}
{% endleaflet_map %}
The location for the Pre-COSYNE Brainhack 2025 is yet to be determined.

Schedule
--------

Monday, March 24th
: **19:00** — Meet in the hotel lobby and go to dinner together

Tuesday, March 25th
: **08:30** — Breakfast and coffee  
: **09:00** — Welcome  
: **09:15** — Project pitches and mingling  
: **10:30** — Hacking  
: **12:30** — Lunch / Hacking  
: **13:30** — Hacking  
: **16:00** — Coffee break  
: **16:15** — Hacking  
: **19:00** — Go out to dinner together

Wednesday, March 26th
: **08:30** — Breakfast  
: **09:00** — Unconference presentations  
: **10:00** — Hacking  
: **12:30** — Lunch / Hacking  
: **13:30** — Hacking  
: **16:00** — Coffee break  
: **16:15** — Wrap-up and closing  
: **18:30** — Go to Simons Foundation social

FAQ
---

Will travel or accommodation be provided?
: No. We are unable to provide travel or accommodation for participants. However, we will provide a list of recommended hotels in the area.

Who is eligible to participate?
: Anyone is welcome to participate! However, you must register in advance and, due to space constraints, we may not be able to accommodate everyone.

Are there prizes?
: Unlike a traditional industry hackathon, there are no prizes. This hackathon is designed to encourage collaboration not competition.
